readme.md, before:

# Description
The front end for the [e-commerce project](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-app). Work in progress, only some admin routes are implemented.

# Overview
## App
The [`App`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L103) defines routes for sign up, log in, sign in and dash. It instantly navigates to `/dash`.

## Dash
The main route in the admin is [`dash/`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L109). [`DashController`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L80), which is rendered on this route, makes sure that the client is authenticated before rendering the actual [`Dash`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L56). Otherwise, it navigates the browser to the sign in page.

## Product
[`useProduct`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L35) is the main controller. It modifies data and makes requests to the server. The other components are views. They lift data up to `useProduct` through callbacks.

The [`product/`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L70) route [creates](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L13) a product and navigates to the created product.

### Price
In the UI, price is represented as two values: one for hryvnias and one for kopiykas. In the data, price is represented in kopyikas. [`hrnToKop`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L17) and [`kopToHrn`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L5) provide a mapping between the two representations.

### State vs. api data
The component's state has default values for the fields. The api data simply doesn't contain the fields for which there's no value. [`stateToData`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L55) and [`dataToState`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L26) implement a mapping between the two representations as well as integrating price conversion (see [Price](#price)).

### Photos
[`pickCb`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L65) adds or removes photos from `photos` (see [`photos_all` and `photos`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#photos_all-and-photos)) based on whether the photos are checked in [`PhotosPicker`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/photos-picker.js#L84). [`PhotosPicker`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/photos-picker.js#L84) renders `photos_all` with checkboxes. It is rendered conditionally depending on whether user clicks the 'add photos' button.

### Time
#### Sending time
The [e-commerce project specification](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#specification) says that time is stored as UTC in the application. `Date`'s `now` and `getTime` methods produce time in UTC, without accounting for timezone difference.

#### Reading time
##### Converting the value from the REST API into javascript Date object
[The expected format of the value is the ISO format](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#data-structure), specifying that the time is specified without a timezone: i.e., specifying the trailing `Z` - e.g., `2023-01-01T22:00Z`. This format is interpreted by the `Date` constructor literally: the resulting `Date` object has it's time set to the time, specified in the fed string. 

##### Time representation in the Product controller
`time` has to be sent to the REST API as a number, representing the milliseconds. Hence, the controller should represent it in this format. I thus convert `time` from the string, received from the API into the number in `dataToState`, before it enters the controller.

##### Converting javascript Date object to HTML date/time inputs
HTML `date` and `time` inputs accept values in an ISO format: `YYYY-MM-DD` for `date` and `HH:MM:SS.MMMM` for `time` [`1`]. A `Date` object's `toISOString` method returns global (UTC) time but in the HTML inputs I need local time. 

To convert global time to local, I set the `Date` object's time via `setTime`, passing it it's `getTime` value subtracted from it's `getTimezoneOffset` value, which is `getTimezoneOffset() * 60000` (`getTimezoneOffset` returns the offset in minutes [`2`] and I need it in milliseconds, hence the multiplication by `60000`): the new value has it's global time set to local time of the original date - now I can use `toISOString` and will get the local time of the original date.

###### Notes
1. [`1`]
2. [`2`]

###### Refs
1. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Date_and_time_formats
2. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date

Commit message:

update time based on HTML inputs

readme.md, after:

# Description
The front end for the [e-commerce project](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-app). Work in progress, only some admin routes are implemented.

# Overview
## App
The [`App`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L103) defines routes for sign up, log in, sign in and dash. It instantly navigates to `/dash`.

## Dash
The main route in the admin is [`dash/`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L109). [`DashController`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L80), which is rendered on this route, makes sure that the client is authenticated before rendering the actual [`Dash`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L56). Otherwise, it navigates the browser to the sign in page.

## Product
[`useProduct`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L35) is the main controller. It modifies data and makes requests to the server. The other components are views. They lift data up to `useProduct` through callbacks.

The [`product/`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin.js#L70) route [creates](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L13) a product and navigates to the created product.

### Price
In the UI, price is represented as two values: one for hryvnias and one for kopiykas. In the data, price is represented in kopyikas. [`hrnToKop`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L17) and [`kopToHrn`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L5) provide a mapping between the two representations.

### State vs. api data
The component's state has default values for the fields. The api data simply doesn't contain the fields for which there's no value. [`stateToData`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L55) and [`dataToState`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product-data.js#L26) implement a mapping between the two representations as well as integrating price conversion (see [Price](#price)).

### Photos
[`pickCb`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/product.js#L65) adds or removes photos from `photos` (see [`photos_all` and `photos`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#photos_all-and-photos)) based on whether the photos are checked in [`PhotosPicker`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/photos-picker.js#L84). [`PhotosPicker`](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-react/blob/master/src/admin/photos-picker.js#L84) renders `photos_all` with checkboxes. It is rendered conditionally depending on whether user clicks the 'add photos' button.

### Time
#### Sending time
The [e-commerce project specification](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#specification) says that time is stored as UTC in the application. 
`Date`'s `now` and `getTime` methods produce time in UTC, without accounting for timezone difference: in `CreateProduct`, I use one of them to add a `time` representing the moment the product is created.
When passed an ISO string to the `Date` constructor, if the timezone information is not included in the string but time information (the info after the `T`) is included (e.g., `2023-01-01T00:00`), the time in the string will be interpreted as local time. In the `Product` view, I read the information on time from the HTML inputs and create a `Date` object with it, which results in it's time being set to the time in UTC, corresponding to the time, specified to the constructor, which is what the API expects.
If no date is set in the date HTML input, but time is set, in the HTML input, I do not send anything to the server.

#### Reading time
##### Converting the value from the REST API into javascript Date object
[The expected format of the value is the ISO format](https://github.com/gottfried-github/e-commerce-api#data-structure), specifying that the time is specified without a timezone: i.e., specifying the trailing `Z` - e.g., `2023-01-01T22:00Z`. This format is interpreted by the `Date` constructor literally: the resulting `Date` object has it's time set to the time, specified in the fed string. 

##### Time representation in the Product controller
`time` has to be sent to the REST API as a number, representing the milliseconds. Hence, the controller should represent it in this format. I thus convert `time` from the string, received from the API into the number in `dataToState`, before it enters the controller.

##### Converting javascript Date object to HTML date/time inputs
HTML `date` and `time` inputs accept values in an ISO format: `YYYY-MM-DD` for `date` and `HH:MM:SS.MMMM` for `time` [`1`]. A `Date` object's `toISOString` method returns global (UTC) time but in the HTML inputs I need local time. 

To convert global time to local, I set the `Date` object's time via `setTime`, passing it it's `getTime` value subtracted from it's `getTimezoneOffset` value, which is `getTimezoneOffset() * 60000` (`getTimezoneOffset` returns the offset in minutes [`2`] and I need it in milliseconds, hence the multiplication by `60000`): the new value has it's global time set to local time of the original date - now I can use `toISOString` and will get the local time of the original date.

###### Notes
1. [`1`]
2. [`2`]

###### Refs
1. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Date_and_time_formats
2. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date
